JAKE MULLINS | DATA ENGINEER 
New York, NY | 770.402.8705 | Email | LinkedIn | GitHub
Data Engineer with 5 years of experience designing and deploying scalable data products in complex environments. Skilled in
building resilient ETL/ELT pipelines with tools like Snowflake, Dbt, and Airflow, backed by deep expertise in Python and SQL.
Extensive experience managing cloud projects and integrating data across AWS, Azure, and GCP environments. History of
leading high-impact projects and facilitating cross-functional design discussions to deliver business-critical solutions.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
DATA ENGINEER III | CONTRACT, L’ORÉAL, NEW YORK, NY 10/2024 - Present
● Automated transforming raw market research data to deliver sales metrics for thousands of brand and competitor products,
replacing the cumbersome processing of millions of records in excel and saving dozens of analyst hours every month.
● Supported research and data scientists in migrating numerous projects from local silos to the enterprise cloud, designing
solutions to integrate data from Onedrive and Azure to GCP and BigQuery.
DATA ENGINEER | CONTRACT, PFIZER INC, NEW YORK, NY 12/2023 - 08/2024
● Led the development and deployment of 3 major data pipeline releases, designing and deploying 50+ batch and streaming
pipelines using Apache Kafka, Snowflake streams, AWS S3, and Apache Spark.
● Integrated complex business requirements across multiple teams, establishing a robust budgeting and supply planning model
for 5-year global stock projections.
● Optimized a critical SQL pipeline handling massive datasets, doubling performance for a table supporting long-term
budgeting and supply chain planning used by 40+ internal customers.
DATA ENGINEER CONSULTANT | CONTRACT, U.S. AIR FORCE, NEW YORK, NY 05/2023 - 08/2023
● Built and scaled complex data pipelines with Python, Apache Airflow, and Docker, ensuring seamless ETL operations across
heterogeneous storage systems in a high-security environment.
● Ensured software reliability by implementing comprehensive unit tests with Pytest across frontend, backend, and database
layers, significantly improving code quality and reducing bugs in production.
● Led live demos, debugged beta software, and provided real-time support as the sole onsite engineer for a US military client,
successfully deploying over 30 days ahead of schedule.
DATA ANALYTICS ENGINEER II | GROWTH LOOP, NEW YORK, NY 12/2021 - 01/2023
● Led the development of an identity resolution project to integrate 50 million customer records from more than 10 sources,
delivering 360-customer-view datasets and a single source of truth for the entire organization.
● Drafted technical specifications and collaborated with engineering and sales teams on web application development,
successfully launching a new identity resolution product offering.
● Implemented a master data management plan, leading the cooperation between multiple VP stakeholders to define key
business logic and ultimately deliver an enterprise master data catalog.
DATA ANALYTICS ENGINEER | GROWTH LOOP, NEW YORK, NY 03/2021 - 12/2021
● Standardized SQL practices across client repositories by implementing an automated linter in production pipelines, leading to
consistent code quality and adherence to organizational guidelines.
● Deployed, owned, and maintained production Airflow pipelines for five enterprise clients, syncing their warehouse data with
their production CRM platforms to enrich and update their customer data at a scale millions of records daily.
● Created a scalable dbt framework cross-compatible with both AWS/Snowflake and GCP/Bigquery, facilitating the successful
expansion of the core product to 10+ new clients.
DATA SCIENTIST | GALVANIZE INC, NEW YORK, NY 01/2020 - 06/2020
● Completed a rigorous python-based certificate program with a focus on machine learning on AWS cloud platforms
culminating in the production and delivery of a final capstone project.
TECHNICAL SKILLS
Python, SQL, DBT, ELT/ETL, REST APIs, Airflow, Data Pipeline Orchestration, Spark, Kafka, Real-Time Streaming, GCP, AWS,
S3, EC2, Docker, Kubernetes, Data Modeling, Master Data Management, Data Warehouse, Data Lake Architecture, Metadata
Management, Relational Databases, Postgres, Snowflake, BigQuery, Data Validation, Parquet, Automated Testing, CI/CD, Jenkins,
GitLab, Statistical Analysis, Numpy, Pandas, Data Visualization, Matplotlib
EDUCATION
GALVANIZE INC, Data Science Certificate, 2020
GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, Chemistry, 2014-2017 B.S. Chemistry